README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<a href="https://mochimo.org/">
<img width="75%" src=".github/media/logo-banner.png" />
</a>

[![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/release/mochimodev/mochimo.svg?logo=github&logoColor=lightgrey&&labelColor=2d3339&label=&color=%230059ff)](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/releases)
![GitHub commits since latest release (by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/mochimodev/mochimo/latest?logo=github&logoColor=lightgrey&labelColor=2d3339&color=%230059ff)<br>
[![Tests workflow](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/tests.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/tests.yaml)
[![Builds workflow](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/builds.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/builds.yaml)
[![CodeQL workflow](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/codeql.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/codeql.yaml)
***Mochimo Services***  
[![Chrome Web Store Version](https://img.shields.io/chrome-web-store/v/fkogefgjocnflhankmffnibdofdiiiho?logo=chromewebstore&label=Chromium%20Wallet&logoColor=lightgrey&labelColor=2d3339)](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/mochimo-wallet/fkogefgjocnflhankmffnibdofdiiiho)
[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/adequatesystems/mochimo-meshapi?include_prereleases&logo=github&logoColor=lightgrey&label=MeshAPI%20Upon%20Request&labelColor=2d3339&)](https://github.com/adequatesystems/mochimo-meshapi)

*You must read and agree to the [LICENSE](https://mochimo.org/license.pdf)
prior to running the code.*

**This repository is home to the Mochimo Cryptocurrency Engine code (main-net).**<br/>
It includes a fully functional cryptocurrency network node and (NVIDIA-only) GPU Miner. Designed to compile for most 64-bit Linux-based machines using the provided GNU Makefile. However, please note that some systems may require additional compilation parameters to build successfully.

</div>

<hr><hr>
<h1 align="center"><strong>OTHER SERVICES</strong></h1>

### [Mochimo Wallet](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/mochimo-wallet/fkogefgjocnflhankmffnibdofdiiiho)
Chromium Wallet that can be installed on your choice of Chromium Web Browser as an extension. Legacy Mojo Wallets can be imported into the Chromium Wallet as individual accounts.

### [Mochimo Mesh API](https://github.com/NickP005/mochimo-mesh)
An API written in Go, intended to comply with the Rosetta Mesh API standard.

<hr><hr>
<h1 align="center"><strong>REQUIREMENTS</strong></h1>

## Minimum Hardware
- (CPU) Dual-core Processor
- (RAM) 2GB of Random Access Memory
- (SSD) 64GB of Solid State Drive Storage
- (NETWORK) Port 2095 incoming TCP/IPv4 access
  - *may require router [port forwarding](https://portforward.com/)*

<hr><hr>
<h1 align="center"><strong>USAGE</strong></h1>

## Automatic Install Service
A setup script is provided to quickly provision or update a Mochimo Node on a Ubuntu Machine. The script will automatically download, build and install a Mochimo Node as a background service.
```sh
curl -L mochimo.org/setup.x | sudo bash -
# ... requires curl (usually pre-installed)
```
... or to install a specific branch, run:
```sh
curl -L mochimo.org/setup.x | sudo bash -s -- <branch>
```

## Uninstall Service
To uninstall a Mochimo Node installed as a service, find your mochimo repositories within `~/.mcm/repo` and change directory to the latest you installed, or `master`, and do `make uninstall` (requires sudo).
```sh
[sudo] make uninstall -C ~/.mcm/repo/master
```

## Build manually
Whatever the reason, build manually with:
```sh
# clone repository, if not already, and change directory
git clone https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo.git
# (optionally) select a version
git -C mochimo/ checkout v3.0.0
# build mochimo to mochimo/bin/
make -C mochimo/ mochimo
```

## Build GPU Miner
*GPU Miner ONLY supports SOLO mining with NVIDIA cards*<br/>
Building GPU Miner from source requires an appropriate [CUDA Toolkit](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads) installation compatible with your target GPUs.
```sh
git clone https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo.git
make -C mochimo/ miner
# mochimo/bin/gpuminer --help
```
... if you have 10-series NVIDIA cards or lower, compile for your target architecture:
```sh
make -C mochimo/ miner NVCCARGS=-arch=sm_61 # 10-series cards
# mochimo/bin/gpuminer --help
```

<hr><hr>
<h1 align="center"><strong>LICENSE</strong></h1>

<sup>**The license to use versions of the code prior to v2.0 expired on December 31st, 2018. Use of the old code is strictly prohibited.**</sup><br/>
The current version of the code is released under an MPL2.0 derivative Open Source license.<br/>
The community is free to develop and change the code with the caveat that any changes must be for the benefit of the Mochimo cryptocurrency network (with a number of exclusions).<br/>
Please read the [LICENSE](https://mochimo.org/license.pdf) for more details on limitations and restrictions.

Contact: support@mochimo.org

<hr><hr>
<h1 align="center"><strong>COMMUNITY</strong></h1>

Discord is our most active social forum where you can discuss Mochimo with the rest of the developer and beta testing community.
- [![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/460867662977695765?label=Discord%20Mochimo%20Official&logo=discord&style=social)](https://discord.mochimap.com)
- [![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/mochimocrypto?style=social)](https://twitter.com/mochimocrypto)
- [![Subreddit subscribers](https://img.shields.io/reddit/subreddit-subscribers/mochimo?style=social)](https://www.reddit.com/r/mochimo/)
- [![YouTube Channel Subscribers](https://img.shields.io/youtube/channel/subscribers/UCFW0_JZR32gMvEtJQ3YE0KA?style=social)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFW0_JZR32gMvEtJQ3YE0KA)
- [![Telegram](https://img.shields.io/badge/Telegram-_-white?style=social&logo=telegram)](https://t.me/mochimocrypto)
- [![Medium Articles](https://img.shields.io/badge/Medium-_-white?style=social&logo=medium&logoColor=12100E)](https://medium.com/mochimo-official)

Commit message:

update readme with manual execution instructions

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<a href="https://mochimo.org/">
<img width="75%" src=".github/media/logo-banner.png" />
</a>

[![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/release/mochimodev/mochimo.svg?logo=github&logoColor=lightgrey&&labelColor=2d3339&label=&color=%230059ff)](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/releases)
![GitHub commits since latest release (by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/mochimodev/mochimo/latest?logo=github&logoColor=lightgrey&labelColor=2d3339&color=%230059ff)<br>
[![Tests workflow](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/tests.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/tests.yaml)
[![Builds workflow](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/builds.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/builds.yaml)
[![CodeQL workflow](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/codeql.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo/actions/workflows/codeql.yaml)  
***Mochimo Services***  
[![Chrome Web Store Version](https://img.shields.io/chrome-web-store/v/fkogefgjocnflhankmffnibdofdiiiho?logo=chromewebstore&label=Chromium%20Wallet&logoColor=lightgrey&labelColor=2d3339)](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/mochimo-wallet/fkogefgjocnflhankmffnibdofdiiiho)
[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/adequatesystems/mochimo-meshapi?include_prereleases&logo=github&logoColor=lightgrey&label=MeshAPI%20Upon%20Request&labelColor=2d3339&)](https://github.com/adequatesystems/mochimo-meshapi)

*You must read and agree to the [LICENSE](https://mochimo.org/license.pdf)
prior to running the code.*

**This repository is home to the Mochimo Cryptocurrency Engine code (main-net).**<br/>
It includes a fully functional cryptocurrency network node and (NVIDIA-only) GPU Miner. Designed to compile for most 64-bit Linux-based machines using the provided GNU Makefile. However, please note that some systems may require additional compilation parameters to build successfully.

</div>

<hr><hr>
<h1 align="center"><strong>OTHER SERVICES</strong></h1>

### [Mochimo Wallet](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/mochimo-wallet/fkogefgjocnflhankmffnibdofdiiiho)
Chromium Wallet that can be installed on your choice of Chromium Web Browser as an extension. Legacy Mojo Wallets can be imported into the Chromium Wallet as individual accounts.

### [Mochimo Mesh API](https://github.com/NickP005/mochimo-mesh)
An API written in Go, intended to comply with the Rosetta Mesh API standard.

<hr><hr>
<h1 align="center"><strong>NODE REQUIREMENTS</strong></h1>

## Minimum Hardware
- (CPU) Dual-core Processor
- (RAM) 2GB of Random Access Memory
- (SSD) 64GB of Solid State Drive Storage
- (NETWORK) Port 2095 incoming TCP/IPv4 access
  - *may require router [port forwarding](https://portforward.com/)*

<hr><hr>
<h1 align="center"><strong>NODE INSTRUCTIONS</strong></h1>

## Automatic Install Service
A setup script is provided to quickly provision or update a Mochimo Node on a Ubuntu Machine. The script will automatically download, build and install a Mochimo Node as a background service.
```sh
curl -L mochimo.org/setup.x | sudo bash -
# ... requires curl (usually pre-installed)
```
... or to install a specific branch, run:
```sh
curl -L mochimo.org/setup.x | sudo bash -s -- <branch>
```

If the automatic install completes successfully, the background service will automatically start and your node will start syncing with the network. Please note, this can take some time, depending on the core count of your machine, and you can monitor it with `journalctl`.
```sh
sudo journalctl -u mochimo -f
```

## Uninstall Service
To uninstall a Mochimo Node installed as a service, find your mochimo repositories within `~/.mcm/repo` and change directory to the latest you installed, or `master`, and do `make uninstall` (requires sudo).
```sh
[sudo] make uninstall -C ~/.mcm/repo/master
```

## Build Manually
Whatever the reason, build manually with:
```sh
# clone repository, if not already, and change directory
git clone https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo.git
# (optionally) select a version
git -C mochimo/ checkout v3.0.0
# build mochimo to mochimo/bin/
make -C mochimo/ mochimo
```

## Run Manually

```sh
mochimo/bin/gomochi
```

<hr><hr>
<h1 align="center"><strong>MINER BUILD/USAGE</strong></h1>

## Build GPU Miner
*GPU Miner ONLY supports SOLO mining with NVIDIA cards*<br/>
Building GPU Miner from source requires an appropriate [CUDA Toolkit](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads) installation compatible with your target GPUs.
```sh
git clone https://github.com/mochimodev/mochimo.git
make -C mochimo/ miner
# mochimo/bin/gpuminer --help
```
... if you have 10-series NVIDIA cards or lower, compile for your target architecture:
```sh
make -C mochimo/ miner NVCCARGS=-arch=sm_61 # 10-series cards
# mochimo/bin/gpuminer --help
```

## Run GPU Miner

```
mochimo/bin/gpuminer -N <YOUR_NODE_IP> -m <YOUR_ACCOUNT_TAG>
```

<hr><hr>
<h1 align="center"><strong>MOCHIMO LICENSE</strong></h1>

<sup>**The license to use versions of the code prior to v2.0 expired on December 31st, 2018. Use of the old code is strictly prohibited.**</sup><br/>
The current version of the code is released under an MPL2.0 derivative Open Source license.<br/>
The community is free to develop and change the code with the caveat that any changes must be for the benefit of the Mochimo cryptocurrency network (with a number of exclusions).<br/>
Please read the [LICENSE](https://mochimo.org/license.pdf) for more details on limitations and restrictions.

Contact: support@mochimo.org

<hr><hr>
<h1 align="center"><strong>COMMUNITY</strong></h1>

Discord is our most active social forum where you can discuss Mochimo with the rest of the developer and beta testing community.
- [![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/460867662977695765?label=Discord%20Mochimo%20Official&logo=discord&style=social)](https://discord.mochimap.com)
- [![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/mochimocrypto?style=social)](https://twitter.com/mochimocrypto)
- [![Subreddit subscribers](https://img.shields.io/reddit/subreddit-subscribers/mochimo?style=social)](https://www.reddit.com/r/mochimo/)
- [![YouTube Channel Subscribers](https://img.shields.io/youtube/channel/subscribers/UCFW0_JZR32gMvEtJQ3YE0KA?style=social)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFW0_JZR32gMvEtJQ3YE0KA)
- [![Telegram](https://img.shields.io/badge/Telegram-_-white?style=social&logo=telegram)](https://t.me/mochimocrypto)
- [![Medium Articles](https://img.shields.io/badge/Medium-_-white?style=social&logo=medium&logoColor=12100E)](https://medium.com/mochimo-official)
